Date- 22/09/2021 
Assignment no.1 - ( Operating Systems )

Q 1. Difference between kernel and OS ?
Ans-            Kernel                                      OS
     (1) Kernel is the core part of the      (1) Operating system(OS)is the collection of     
         operating system.                       of softwares that manages computer hardware
                                                 resources.
     (2) It acts as an interface between     (2) It acts as an interface between user and 
         software and hardware of the            hardware of the computer.
         computer system.
     (3) It plays an important role in       (3) It responsible for protection and security
         memory management, task manag-           of the computer system.
         ement, process management and 
         disk management.
     (4) All operating systems need          (4) All system needs operating system to run.
         kernel to run.
     (5) It is the first program to          (5) It is the first program to load when computer
         load when operating system              boots up.
         loads.
     (6) Type of kernel includes Mono-       (6) Type of operating system includes single and 
         lithic and Micro kernel.                multiuser OS, multiprocessor OS, Realtime OS, 
                                                 Distributed OS.

Q 2. Write one liner on type of OS with example.
Ans- Types of OS are following:
     1. Batch OS- the First operating system of the second-generation computer is the batch
        operating system. Batch operating system took the input on the punch card. 
        Each punch card had the different form of data. System executed the jobs one by one in batch.
        eg. Payroll system, Bank Invoice System
     2. Distributed OS- A distributed operating system is one in which several computer systems 
        connected through a single communication channel. 
        eg. Solaris operating system for SUN multiprocessor workstations.
     3. Multitasking OS- Multitasking operating system provides the interface for executing the 
        multiple program tasks by single user at a same time on the one computer system.
        eg. Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10,Linux etc.
     4. A network operating system (NOS)- is a computer operating system (OS) that is designed
        primarily to support workstations, personal computers and, in some instances, older terminals 
        that are connected on a local area network.
        eg. Microsoft Windows Server 2003, Microsoft Windows Server 2008, UNIX, Linux etc
     5. Real Time OS- are used in environments where a large number of events, mostly external to the
        computer system, must be accepted and processed in a short time or within certain deadlines.
        eg. Airline traffic control systems, Command Control Systems, Airlines reservation system etc.
     6. Mobile OS-  A mobile operating system is software that allows smartphones, tablet 
        PCs (personal computers) and other devices to run applications and programs.